adding component structure chapter (#54)
infinum/eightshift-docs: website/docs/basics/helpers-javascript.md

---
id: helpers-javascript
title: JavaScript
sidebar_label: JavaScript
---

[![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-eigthshift--frontend--libs-yellow?style=for-the-badge&logo=javascript&labelColor=2a2a2a)](https://github.com/infinum/eightshift-frontend-libs/tree/develop/blocks/init/src/blocks/)

## checkAttr

> Check if attributes exist in the attributes list and add default value if not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checks if the attributes exist in the attributes list, and adds a default value if they don't.
```

* @param string $key Key to check.
* @param array  $attributes Array of attributes.
* @param array  $manifest Array of default attributes from manifest.json.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { checkAttr } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  checkAttr('buttonUse', attributes, manifest);
```

## cookies

> It is used to set and get cookie values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Used to set and get cookie values.
```

This is related to the GDPR plugin or?

**Usage:**

```js
  import { cookies } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

>   setCookie('gdpr', '2', cookies.setOneDay(), '/');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  cookies.setCookie('gdpr', '2', cookies.setOneDay(), '/');
```

>   getCookie('gdpr');

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  cookies.getCookie('gdpr');
```

```

## debounce

> Debounces the provided function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Debounces the provided function. For more information check [this blog post](https://davidwalsh.name/javascript-debounce-function).
```

Doesn't hurt to have some outbound links. Better for SEO 😄

* @param {function} func Provided function to apply debounce.
* @param {int} wait Wait time for debounce.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { debounce } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  debounce(() => {
    // callback function.
  }, 250);
```

## devices

> Check if your browser's navigator is specific device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check if your browser's navigator is a specific device.
```

**Usage:**

```js
  import { device } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  device.iPhone();
```

## dynamicImport

> To get (require) all the files using the `require.context` method. It will find all files recursively in the folder using a regex. The following example will require all assets/index.js files inside the custom folder, so there is no need to manually add the files to the build.

Reviewer: Is this the same as dynamic import when you load a script only when used or something different? If it's different we need to clarify this distinction.

 * @param {object} paths All require.context patch to iterate.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { dynamicImport } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  dynamicImport(require.context('./../../custom', true, /assets\/index.js$/));
```

## escape-string

Takes provided string and removes special characters. Characters that will be removed: `([;&,.+*~':"!^#$%@[\]()=>|]`.

* @param string $key Key to check.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { escapeString } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

>   escapeString.escapeString('Special string');

Reviewer: A bit weird usage. Can't this be made so that it's just `escapeString`?

```

## responsiveSelectors

> Create responsive selectors used for responsive attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create responsive selectors used for responsive attributes.

Useful if you want to show how the responsive behavior looks in the editor.
```

* @param array   items        Array of breakpoints.
* @param string  selector     Selector for this breakpoint.
* @param string  parent       Parent block selector.
* @param boolean use_modifier If false, you can use this selector for visibility.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { responsiveSelectors } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  responsiveSelectors($attributes['width'], 'width', $blockClass);
```

**Output:**

```js
  .block-column__width-large--4
```

> ## selectorB

Reviewer: couldn't this be named `selectorBEM` or `BEMselector`? `selectorB` sounds a bit like `zyklon B` 😬 And it's not clear from the name what this is.

> Return's BEM selector for HTML class and checks if block is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns BEM selector for HTML class and checks if block is set.
```

* @param string block BEM Block selector. *(required)*
* @param string element BEM Element selector.
* @param string modifier BEM Modifier selector.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { selectorB } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  selectorB(blockClass);
  selectorB(blockClass, selectorClass);
  selectorB(blockClass, selectorClass, modifierClass);
```

**Equivalent:**

```js
  blockClass ? `${blockClass}` : '';
  blockClass ? `${blockClass}__${selectorClass}` : '';
  blockClass ? `${blockClass}__${selectorClass}--${modifierClass}` : '';
```

> ## selectorE

Reviewer: Also, completely unclear what this does from the name 😕

> Return's BEM selector for HTML class and checks if the element is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns BEM selector for HTML class and checks if the element is set.
```

* @param string block BEM Block selector. *(required)*
* @param string element BEM Element selector. *(required)*
* @param string modifier BEM Modifier selector.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { selectorE } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  selectorE(blockClass, selectorClass);
  selectorE(blockClass, selectorClass, modifierClass);
```

**Equivalent:**

```js
  selectorClass ? `${blockClass}__${selectorClass}` : '';
  selectorClass ? `${blockClass}__${selectorClass}--${modifierClass}` : '';
```

> ## selectorM

Reviewer: Check the above. 

I know naming things is hard, but the names should be descriptive, especially in a 3rd party library.

> Return's BEM selector for HTML class and checks if the modifier is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns BEM selector for HTML class and checks if the modifier is set.
```

* @param string block BEM Block selector. *(required)*
* @param string element BEM Element selector. *(required)*
* @param string modifier BEM Modifier selector. *(required)*

**Usage:**

```js
  import { selectorM } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  selectorM(blockClass, selectorClass, modifierClass);
```

**Equivalent:**

```js
  modifierClass ? `${blockClass}__${selectorClass}--${modifierClass}` : '';

> ```

Reviewer 2: Do we really need this? Since `selectorB` does the same thing (depending on the number of parameters.) We can call that one `bemSelectors`.

## selector

Return's BEM selector for HTML class and checks all conditions from the checkAttr method.

* @param string block BEM Block selector.
* @param string element BEM Element selector.
* @param string key Key to check.
* @param array  attributes Array of attributes.
* @param array  manifest Array of default attributes from manifest.json.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { selector } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/helpers';

  selector(componentClass, 'size', 'buttonSize', attributes, manifest),
```

**Equivalent:**

```js
  manifest['size'] ? `${componentClass}__size--${manifest['size']}` : '';
```

## selectorCustom

> Return's BEM selector for HTML class and checks if the custom condition is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Returns BEM selector for HTML class and checks if the custom condition is set.
```

```

**Equivalent:**

```js
  !(buttonContent && buttonUrl) ? `${componentClass}-placeholder` : '';

  test ? `${componentClass}__${elementClass}` : '';

  !(newTest) ? `${componentClass}__${elementClass}--${modifierClass}` : '';
```

## getPaletteColors

Use this hook to read editor-color-palette colors directly from WP built-in store.

* Requires WP => 5.3

**Usage:**

```js
  import { getPaletteColors } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/editor';

  getPaletteColors();
```

## overrideInnerBlockAttributes

It is used to set attributes on all innerBlocks. This value will be stored in the Block Editor store and set to a block.

**Usage:**

```js
  import { useSelect } from '@wordpress/data';
  import { overrideInnerBlockAttributes } from '@eightshift/frontend-libs/scripts/editor';

  useSelect((select) => {
    overrideInnerBlockAttributes(
      select,
      props.clientId,
      {
        wrapperDisable: true,
      }
    );
  });
```

## overrideInnerBlockSimpleWrapperAttributes

It is used to set attributes on all innerBlocks preset only for simple wrapper setup. This value will be stored in the Block Editor store and set to a block.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

empty line
